docs/analytics-ga4/trackers.md, before:

# Trackers

For tracking different kinds of data on GOV.UK we have built several different trackers. Each type of tracking is handled by a separate script, but some code is shared between them as they often do similar things.

Most of the trackers work by adding a `data-module` attribute to an element along with additional data attributes to provide specific tracking information. Some components have this already built into their code by default. These components should also include a `disable_ga4` option as a failsafe.

## Auto tracker

The [auto tracker](trackers/ga4-auto-tracker.md) is used to cause an event to occur as soon as a page has finished loading (but after a page view). This is used to track significant moments in journeys, such as the successful completion of a smart answer, or an error.

## Copy tracker

The [copy tracker](trackers/ga4-copy-tracker.md) fires an event when text is copied from a page.

## Ecommerce tracker

The [ecommerce tracker](trackers/ga4-ecommerce-tracker.md) is used to track things like search results within a finder.

## Event tracker

The [event tracker](trackers/ga4-event-tracker.md) handles tracking on buttons or other interactive elements, such as tabs and details elements.

## Focus loss tracker

The [focus loss tracker](trackers/ga4-focus-loss-tracker.md) is designed to capture data about an element when it loses focus.

## Form tracker

The [form tracker](trackers/ga4-form-tracker.md) is designed to capture data about a form when it has been submitted.

## Link tracker

There are several types of link tracking. To distinguish them and simplify the code, we define them as follows.

- the [link tracker](trackers/ga4-link-tracker.md) handles link clicks with data attributes added to specific links, or to parent elements of groups of links
- the [specialist link tracker](trackers/ga4-specialist-link-tracker.md) automatically tracks clicks on 'special' links, such as external links, download links and mailto links

## Print intent tracker

The [print intent tracker](trackers/ga4-print-intent-tracker.md) tracks if the page has been requested to be printed.

## Scroll tracker

The [scroll tracker](trackers/ga4-scroll-tracker.md) tracks how much of a page has been viewed.

## Smart answer results tracker

The [smart answer results tracker](trackers/ga4-smart-answer-results-tracker.md) has been built specifically to track the Cost of Living smart answer.

## Video tracker

The [video tracker](trackers/ga4-video-tracker.md) tracks video views.

Commit message:

Add new custom analytics tracker for search
This adds a new `Ga4SearchTracker` analytics tracker which will
eventually replace:
- the usage of the generic `Ga4FormTracker` on the homepage and layout
  super navigation
- the custom search event code on the all content finder ("site search")

For now, this fires exactly the same event with the same data as the
existing use of the form tracker/custom search event code. However, it
allows us to share logic and be consistent in event data between all the
different places we offer a search box across GOV.UK, and will allow us
in a future change to add the ability to track usage of the upcoming
autocomplete functionality as well.

docs/analytics-ga4/trackers.md, after:

# Trackers

For tracking different kinds of data on GOV.UK we have built several different trackers. Each type of tracking is handled by a separate script, but some code is shared between them as they often do similar things.

Most of the trackers work by adding a `data-module` attribute to an element along with additional data attributes to provide specific tracking information. Some components have this already built into their code by default. These components should also include a `disable_ga4` option as a failsafe.

## Auto tracker

The [auto tracker](trackers/ga4-auto-tracker.md) is used to cause an event to occur as soon as a page has finished loading (but after a page view). This is used to track significant moments in journeys, such as the successful completion of a smart answer, or an error.

## Copy tracker

The [copy tracker](trackers/ga4-copy-tracker.md) fires an event when text is copied from a page.

## Ecommerce tracker

The [ecommerce tracker](trackers/ga4-ecommerce-tracker.md) is used to track things like search results within a finder.

## Event tracker

The [event tracker](trackers/ga4-event-tracker.md) handles tracking on buttons or other interactive elements, such as tabs and details elements.

## Focus loss tracker

The [focus loss tracker](trackers/ga4-focus-loss-tracker.md) is designed to capture data about an element when it loses focus.

## Form tracker

The [form tracker](trackers/ga4-form-tracker.md) is designed to capture data about a form when it has been submitted.

## Link tracker

There are several types of link tracking. To distinguish them and simplify the code, we define them as follows.

- the [link tracker](trackers/ga4-link-tracker.md) handles link clicks with data attributes added to specific links, or to parent elements of groups of links
- the [specialist link tracker](trackers/ga4-specialist-link-tracker.md) automatically tracks clicks on 'special' links, such as external links, download links and mailto links

## Print intent tracker

The [print intent tracker](trackers/ga4-print-intent-tracker.md) tracks if the page has been requested to be printed.

## Scroll tracker

The [scroll tracker](trackers/ga4-scroll-tracker.md) tracks how much of a page has been viewed.

## Search tracker

The [search tracker](trackers/ga4-search-tracker.md) tracks user interaction with site search boxes in the header, on the homepage, and on the "all content" finder.

## Smart answer results tracker

The [smart answer results tracker](trackers/ga4-smart-answer-results-tracker.md) has been built specifically to track the Cost of Living smart answer.

## Video tracker

The [video tracker](trackers/ga4-video-tracker.md) tracks video views.
