docs/analytics-ga4/trackers/ga4-search-tracker.md, before:

# Google Analytics 4 search tracker

This module allows us to consistently track usage of search across the several different search
fields from which a user can initiate a search on GOV.UK:
- the layout super navigation header
- the homepage
- the search page itself

It is not used by the legacy UI for finders, which triggers search events on user input (rather than
waiting for form submission) as part of its "live search" functionality.

## How it works
Annotate a `<form>` element containing a search field (`<input type="search">`, for example the
`search` or `search_with_autocomplete` publishing components) with the module and its required data
fields:

```html
<form
  data-module="ga4-search-tracker"
  data-ga4-search-type="site search"
  data-ga4-search-url="/search"
  data-ga4-search-section="section"
  data-ga4-search-index-section="19"
  data-ga4-search-index-section-count="89"
>
```

When the form is submitted, a `search` event with the will be tracked containing:
- the type, URL, section, index section, and index section count fields based on the data attributes
  outlined above
- the state (text) of the search field contained within
- information about the user's interaction with autocomplete (if present), based on attributes set
  by the `search_with_autocomplete` component

Commit message:

Improve GA4 search tracking
Now that we have collected a decent amount of tracking data on search
across GOV.UK, we've come across a couple of trip hazards with the
existing tracking. In particular:
- suppressing the event if the keyword hasn't changed is a bit brittle
  (and subtly buggy as we've forgotten to normalise the initial keyword
  in the JS component state)
- Relying on separate tracking in Finder Frontend for filter application
  has led to duplication and unreliable behaviour (for example, as we
  only track clicks of the filter button, we do not get events when a
  user submits the form through other means such as the Enter key or the
  main search field's submit button)

This change updates the behaviour of the `Ga4SearchTracker` module as
follows:
- update the tracking to _always_ fire a `search` event when the form is
  submitted
- make the action of the `search` event dynamic
- update the logic to establish whether the user is searching vs
  filtering by checking which fields the user has interacted with
  (instead of checking if the keyword has changed), and set the event's
  action property accordingly

docs/analytics-ga4/trackers/ga4-search-tracker.md, after:

# Google Analytics 4 search tracker

This module allows us to consistently track usage of search across the several different search
fields from which a user can initiate a search on GOV.UK:
- the layout super navigation header
- the homepage
- the search page itself

It is not used by the legacy UI for finders, which triggers search events on user input (rather than
waiting for form submission) as part of its "live search" functionality.

## How it works
Annotate a `<form>` element containing a search field (`<input type="search">`, for example the
`search` or `search_with_autocomplete` publishing components) with the module and its required data
fields:

```html
<form
  data-module="ga4-search-tracker"
  data-ga4-search-type="site search"
  data-ga4-search-url="/search"
  data-ga4-search-section="section"
  data-ga4-search-index-section="19"
  data-ga4-search-index-section-count="89"
>
```

When the form is submitted, a `search` event will be tracked containing:
- an action according to the user's interaction with the form:
  - `search` if they have interacted with the search term field
  - `filter` if they have interacted with any other field in the form (but not the search term
    field)
  - `unchanged` otherwise, for example if they have just (re-)submitted the form
- the type, URL, section, index section, and index section count fields based on the data attributes
  outlined above
- the state (text) of the search field contained within
- information about the user's interaction with autocomplete (if present), based on attributes set
  by the `search_with_autocomplete` component
